The ICS Text Editor for the IOBox
by Dan Rowley
Copyright (C) 1999 Innovative Computer Solutions
All Rights Reserved


The ICS Text Editor is an alternate viewer/editor for the
Newton 2.0 In/Out box (IOBox) which can be used to view/edit
text items like email.  It's primary advantage over the 
standard editor is that it can handle arbitrarily large
documents without much difficulty (and without running out
of heap), and should be able to view large text documents
much more quickly than the standard viewer or other available
viewers.  

The ICS Text Editor is pretty much a release of a product
that was never finished, so there are rough edges and 
behaviors which could be considered 'sub-optimal.'  Rather
than just shelve the project altogether, we decided to release
it as unsupported freeware.

DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY -
	This software is provided AS-IS without any warranty of any 
	kind.  No warranties are made or implied regarding
	merchantability or fitness to a particular purpose.
	
This software is FREEWARE and provided as a gift to the 
newton community.  As such, it is UNSUPPORTED software -
no updates are anticipated, and no technical support of
any kind is available.

If you are a developer and would like to take over development
of the ICS Text Editor, please contact the author, Dan Rowley,
directly at dan@newts.com.  We would prefer that the editor
remained free, and must retain ICS credit and attribution.

To use the ICS Text Editor, simply install it to your Newton
using the usual methods (NCU, MBU, Newton Package Installer,
X-Port, etc).  Next time you view an eligible item in the 
InBox or Outbox, you can choose the ICS Text Editor from the
"Show" popup  menu.  If there is no "show" menu or the ICS 
Text Editor does not appear in the menu, then that item is
not an eligible item.  When viewing in the InBox, you are 
usually not permitted to edit the text, but you can select
text (for an email reply, for instance).  When editing large
documents, you will notice a pause when scrolling to another
page if you have made a change - this is the editor saving
your changes and is normal.  This pause will tend to increase
with the size of the document, but will only occur if you have
actually made a change to the current page.

The scroll bar and scroll arrows at the right of the screen
operate mostly as you would expect them to.  The scroll bar is
proportional when idle, but not when you are actually dragging
it.  You will notice that when you drag the scrollbar, the
text is not scrolled line-by-line, but can actually begin in
the middle of the line.  This is a limitation of the current
scrolling mechanism.  Tapping on the up or down arrows will 
scroll by approximately one page-full of text.  You can not
drag-select beyond the edge of the current page, and scrolling
will cause the current selection to be cancelled.  Thus, there
is no way to select more than one page-full of text.





